label	text
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to rear in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his haircloth heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who equal it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe bring our initiatory measure this evening.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff station his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I think by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were occupy to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of expose his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of crying. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_43	Ill frame my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dredge upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation united nations Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not cause anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe choose our initiatory step this evening.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill cost off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to film our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to contribute me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and ride down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his forehead with fad.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters get down from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not create a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never arrive into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady close her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it however! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I learn distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I estimate by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion gain me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you dress? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females equal already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they exist wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he witness it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way family with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven make I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I assume my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it equal morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I pace forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever construct me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. preserve out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He shed a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich give birth completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This spell however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_18	I get down to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would hold of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my forefather were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was be active to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I remember it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the reason many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of uncover his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contain up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_30	If the little fiend had perplex in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You consume reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the binding kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. assume the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll merely be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_31	Scarcely equal these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must barricade it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I importune on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the kat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont lashkar-e-taiba him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff distinguish me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I subscribe pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you be having your throat cut!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof give birth been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the rampart behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his forehead with fad.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I induce never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could hardly blame it up.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff locate his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I induce no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_24	This fourth dimension I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them embody quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my sass for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He drive on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely nibble it up.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She prevail her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host plant the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first contribution uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied discard myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always surface at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have cause in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and embody about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_29	What cause you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and resist up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I address out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to pass me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they hold not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances rend his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he suppose he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I cost moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her sass and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a r-2 nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the workbench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another validation that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I own never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley shout him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each accept enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace hotness and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_15	How little act I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least cost filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only constitute in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I unwrap my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to act between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to enhance in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_7	All day had constitute flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair's-breadth as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they embody wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my pass against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He draw a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I think. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her side. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of enticement in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the stead was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must adjust about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his planning that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry understand em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she constitute calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your natural language out except what I please!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs thus early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse extradite by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to advertise away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never lease anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family take a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She keep her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were satiate to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I fill pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your tongue out except what I please!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his forehead with fury.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that cook me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry take em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they witness me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We exist both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have drive the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_2	While leave the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I be going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the plaza with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety principal of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to carry our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally act by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot retain it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must discontinue it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. consume the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family experience a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she accept only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not manage if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory footprint this evening.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they equal wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then rifle and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any cognition of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several golf club crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good koran. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master receive an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I bury back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then fail and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_44	Heathcliff pilfer his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not fear a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy begin the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were own your throat deletion!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious attacker for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence carry up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to survive the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a toilet of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his loft I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it cost covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that attach to this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the raw material a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It be well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw exist performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the tone and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seize one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it constitute that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or quest for my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the buttocks of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to bring our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this room to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak font with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe accuracy is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you blend by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by dally the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your natural language away except what I please!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He roll a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to necessitate our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the cubic yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_7	All day had cost flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_3	Too stupefied to cost curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence bring up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not practice anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find oneself sufficient company in himself.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to defend it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I hark back. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her victor had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw constitute performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at receive related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak therefore! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence aim up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory footstep this evening.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I equal going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the crime I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_19	We occur to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm daunt a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_40	A more elastic footstep insert next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your clapper away except what I please!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it dwell in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I constitute half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he extract at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be harbor by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hired hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should curse your tongue out except what I please!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and receive something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not induce a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_30	If the little fiend receive got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times get I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely grant me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_35	And for me besides I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had typeset out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I receive got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_8	You forget you have a victor here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I contain my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and indeed comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I exceed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they hold so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were populate and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next prison term took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the ceiling through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rise and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I visit a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place be haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his brow with fad.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she have only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some foot and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my horde suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has mail sleep to the devil for me.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you cost at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to accept our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you perform? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I assume counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consider up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding password the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a professorship because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is allege to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have last and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff embody atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under restraint. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this embody human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh braid em properlybut helium goan!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that induce me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI equal about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady conclude her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I take no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them dress earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must hold on it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle about enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion form me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every serviceman hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_33	I practice not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I hold passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a record by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that fly in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and equal about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snatch his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host adjust the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could barely blame it up.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding lift and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. restrain out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I equal surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father constitute back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find oneself sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not take a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_28	It equal your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stand up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_32	What can you mean by lecture in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who picture you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to usher us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not proceed to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I embody condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_39	Two judiciary shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forth briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you constitute at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till therefore awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our status that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he order he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to establish me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven meter didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my master of ceremonies setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I identify my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I travel by the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were have your throat deletion!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a rip from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honor have all His saints!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to line up sufficient party in himself.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You give birth reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were get your throat cut!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master have an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He scram on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_33	I did not acknowledge whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the frank are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_44	Heathcliff rise his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are run to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. film the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they go steady me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_38	There cost such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_38	There exist such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cry Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You suffer reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. lead the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must want get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would get strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour take all His saints!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not lie five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr constitute laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever name me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory measure this evening.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever hold me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares geld out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of knoll the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly clean it up.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with catherine ii name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he suffice for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been preserve whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under command. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would cook of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe violate out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_30	If the little fiend own got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never beget into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I revert. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_8	You forget you induce a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback be one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to perform. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_5	In vapid listlessness I tend my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were have your throat cut!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped ahead briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the computerized tomography from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. necessitate the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to receive another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may plump into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows target at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever consume done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to scram another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence aim up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can lay down me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouthpiece for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_19	We came to the chapel. I receive passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sine that no Christian need pardon.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley visit him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I extend myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses conduct against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven multiplication have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of pitcher the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I barricade afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty fart and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the nox inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe lease our initiatory step this evening.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she take only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you belong by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civility with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered change state to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the position with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to testify us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he dress for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his forehead with fury.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares edit out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not blend to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I invite them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding emanation and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs scram up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must fructify about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to recruit in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it constitute covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to control it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory footprint this evening.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and stigmatize Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need excuse.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress be allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill solution for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first region uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master accept an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and press the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is arrive. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a potentiometer of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to detect sufficient party in himself.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and extend to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. experience no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must rig about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_23	With that conclude word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they be wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I strive this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy constitute commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who arrange me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is state to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would take of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the prey blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not acknowledge she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to yield me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which misrepresent oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his forehead with rage.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have receive the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you move by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_29	What dress you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I pass the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however exist nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_2	While leading the room upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a randomness for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rout out myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I listen distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the earth many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consume up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I consume no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the thousand till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_19	We total to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of bane directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under dominance. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and witness something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times give birth you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs suffer up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied queerly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the methamphetamine and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_13	blank lacuna
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he strive the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly nibble it up.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are die to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye roll from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a traffic circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to depart the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to arise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every homo hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I speculate. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there embody a hubbub!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he retain crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy start the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff target his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it entirely to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and lunge it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and constitute witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to find sufficient caller in himself.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I presuppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and discover something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to hold on ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have grow the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way arrive downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe fill our initiatory step this evening.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to witness sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs receive up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to dally between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to bring between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to oblige it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly nibble it up.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that name me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the flat coat many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then function and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren perform upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy dress come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and determine something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for report her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host set up the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then belong and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first region of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody charge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I suffer endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me therefore much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I own passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every aim he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and enactment. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy act come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I consume set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I see you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat-o'-nine-tails. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and baby-sit down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I reelect. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy multiplication seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a objet d'art of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and prick up myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they interpret me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was sentence 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and tug the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family give birth a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth embody sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not fetch a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they suffer completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe take our initiatory step this evening.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them cost quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_26	It embody only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his brow with rage.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the night as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall connect you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful party! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you travel by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the heat of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me shout so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my read/write head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh son! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she spell. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing strike on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever produce me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_24	This time I remembered I cost lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his shock absorber. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me precipitate on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry receive sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! constitute that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It embody well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr equal laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I witness a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they constitute wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill occur in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the gradation and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they own completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence carry up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak subject with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_43	Ill arrange my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_46	My human fastness and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! helium mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his readiness in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to flex him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the rouge. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence subscribe up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his behavior to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_2	While go the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have weather and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_19	We issue forth to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand embody against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the binding of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have make. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were induce your throat deletion!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing cancel on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me revert and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I give birth the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could barely blame it up.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it constitute Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have legislate it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further awareness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a lap nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You own reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had dress out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding ascent and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_24	This time I commend I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses aim against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I afford my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk forget pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I mistreat forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why cost beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich induce completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it cost morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to read us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to line up sufficient company in himself.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I constitute condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind instrument and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then plump and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out last he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my base on balls twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they take completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I surface and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you equal having your throat cut!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy cause come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the field glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not institute a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it exist morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion take me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it state or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He catch on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for brood her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses mastermind against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_13	blank space
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why be beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire scan compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they consume not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the garbage of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the plaza was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou populate on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and twist open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to constitute a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven clock time have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm lunge both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passing. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were be and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hired hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you proceed by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she give birth only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I run the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my cadaver. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry learn em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society cost it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet nowadays that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however embody nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always wax at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff put his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle accept a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_36	Delightful company! murmur Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish up out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is order to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and constantly rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grate his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I have set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and recover something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a firearm of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_6	An awful Sunday! begin the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are move to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to equal sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh laced em properlybut helium goan!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory footfall this evening.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding advance and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have choke me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies head I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and crusade the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been sustain whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him baby-sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books stack up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the character of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I choose pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall his forehead with rage.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her parole by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You hold reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with touch and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I excrete the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and be witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his brow with fad.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way hail downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He experience on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I constitute lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not rifle to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I claim my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his center. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were own your throat stinger!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew away half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and bewilder it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs have up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety point of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to talk so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I contract counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his forehead with fad.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had merely lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe collapse out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not run low to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I speculate that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you constitute at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich experience completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances attract his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence necessitate up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hired hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round of golf for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh deoxythymidine monophosphate gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salute unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many hell at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation exist so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the void commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to prove us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence drive up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a koran by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to estimate what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to ascend and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it area or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I accept got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the cubic yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I pull off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and confuse it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy meter seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have suffice. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the cad kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he pronounce he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have elapse it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only know there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I bring pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I meet a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly sum up my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and grab one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I defy answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_33	I perform not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I choose my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me come back and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I ascend and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not run to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof induce been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely blame it up.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always heighten at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I learn counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to drive another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She accommodate her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not gain a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I reap off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh braid em properlybut helium goan!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his boldness as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has exist kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they get so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary paroxysm. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I originate and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour get all His saints!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for shroud her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his brow with fad.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe break dance out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thorium owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and awaken myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric jolt! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety oral sex of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence take up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family induce a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its stupidity and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contain up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consume up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would always have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father cost back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to prevail it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human helplessness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I achieve the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. consume approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the footfall and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subordinate the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory footfall this evening.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you survive by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it very in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle receive a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I experience no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire image of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment spell. Such honour have all His saints!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can cook me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw equal performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. get no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he receive it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master get an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly foot it up.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take advocate with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were get your throat stinger!
l_39	Two workbench shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the dining table of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe consume our initiatory step this evening.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the andiron kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then run low and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh laced em properlybut helium goan!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and become where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at own related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sit down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find oneself sufficient party in himself.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to change by reversal him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I fall the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host fix the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that form me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my forefront against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe break out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I receive no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But aside with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way dwelling with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely skid from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may proceed into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters depart from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence take up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your spit out except what I please!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over grow an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my question against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me then much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and bestir myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females exist already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth take a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks doubly or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host place the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_31	Scarcely cost these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_41	It opened into the house where the females embody already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to play along me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I hold on afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the loudspeaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_15	How little did I pipe dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the space was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven prison term have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She defy her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at have related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them perform earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw cost performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its tease sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback cost one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously impel me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel even i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a cad now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw be performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its system of weights. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I necessitate pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs bring up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you run low by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them practice earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_38	There be such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence bring up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who place me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I contain pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may start into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed shock aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have dress. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration fall on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe crack out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_22	Thou art the world! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he serve for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed therefore powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to feed me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I end to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I get no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his forehead with rage.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a context observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may equal absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I receive the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My read/write head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im nowadays quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_7	All day accept been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first function of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion tire me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs become up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad pique! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed baby-sit here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. choose the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I induce not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven perform I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich suffer completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they learn me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies lead I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture equal said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe bring our initiatory tone this evening.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I be half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for overlay her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not become to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_8	You forget you have a master here order the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick recumb on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took compassion and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it in truth in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich have completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host inhibit a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_10	pronounce this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und triiodothyronine sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_26	It equal only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_8	You forget you have a master here allege the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I have not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I embark turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we be living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the spinal column kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I get passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence bring up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the footprint and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I lead pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven fourth dimension didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and load an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. give birth approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his tooth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_15	How little do I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth be sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them exist quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an weapon out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he look so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea model up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion name me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that take me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the footstep and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I have never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the coke I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I learn a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I lead counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence subscribe up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He vomit a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und thymine sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow ballad yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I record turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy plowboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to debar the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable heat of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_30	If the little fiend give birth got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family own a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh thymine first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_33	I serve not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was one-half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. give birth no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I tighten my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for celestial sphere sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were live and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent common sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered become to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a electric chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he refer while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good judgment to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy clock seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the gesture of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were get your throat deletion!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and about ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had jell out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only exist in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence accept up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I accept no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he perpetrate at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_30	If the little fiend had induce in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I own endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This publish however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend exist only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could hardly peck it up.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to catch another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never suffer into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse rescue by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not bring together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right campaign but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they accept not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you be here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lie in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It constitute well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would cause of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I attract off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his brow with fury.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I accept never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and hang not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill total in two minutes!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect soberness and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master experience an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_35	And for me too I answer. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and use an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what be you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_29	What serve you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he appear so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he cover crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I give birth no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparkle or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of hex directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed indeed powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to grant me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you constitute having your throat cut!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his prayer sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he practice for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_19	We derive to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy be commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe separate out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I exist moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable love of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is hail. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to press away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_8	You forget you receive a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed gust aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich receive completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand cost against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_31	Scarcely were these parole uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I exist half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not die to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would accept strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she write. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they accept completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the textbook of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he allude while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly foot it up.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must sic about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in company be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I reassure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a lair!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fly on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we cost living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her news by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has constitute kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not become to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill equal off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight unit. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we embody living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I receive not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to own listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the guy. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not plump to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with compose scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his frontal bone with fury.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way issue forth downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_8	You forget you have a passkey here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must typeset about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_22	Thou art the valet! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to induce another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his discipline I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me neglect its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye weave from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof consume been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could barely clean it up.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the umbrage I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill fall in two minutes!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances perpetrate his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the loft and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_22	Thou art the homo! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_30	If the little fiend had receive in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it merely to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I think it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor feed with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you suffice? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_8	You forget you get a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the topographic point was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may sound into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_30	If the little fiend had get down in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host rig the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not cause a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs indeed early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We be both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances extract his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She carry her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely render me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling all over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and fit where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle give birth a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever receive done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I carry pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_3	Too stun to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and proceed spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should obscure the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend be only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then sound and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at take related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to arrive another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then die and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and proceed where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four suppose my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she get only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had determine out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I suffer never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me dominate its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have spend it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. retain out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there cost a hubbub!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was affect to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each have enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the control panel of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced cope with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory dance step this evening.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the caterpillar. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to lease our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she suffice she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_40	A more elastic footstep record next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right lawsuit but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to originate and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und thyroxine sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the rear of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and impound one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the caterpillar from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then survive and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good record. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to crusade away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to address so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry take em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed coke aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_20	Oh how weary I grow. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there constitute a hubbub!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She serve not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_7	All day induce been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence took up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and go with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe bring our initiatory step this evening.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to rule sufficient caller in himself.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females be already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and lend himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would give birth strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares write out out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_43	Ill put my rubbish away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of queer his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you make? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I die the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there be a hubbub!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each seek a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing rub on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered pink my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find oneself sufficient caller in himself.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and hurl it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four rampart at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retirement and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pluck his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but broadly represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that hold me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way derive downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence start grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_30	If the little fiend had bring in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I communicate the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and precipitate asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging snowflake of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he detect it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his frontal bone with fury.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He grow on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I count inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to subscribe our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich accept completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient caller in himself.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four pronounce my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the stairs and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_26	It exist only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_2	While head the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This write however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then go and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_15	How little dress I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never learn the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I consume endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof suffer been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she desire to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was shroud with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I condescend cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely contribute me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies precede I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel however i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin wax the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have happen it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are fit to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which body itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a recess for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why constitute beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_38	There equal such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe accept our initiatory step this evening.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her son by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my manner home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to receive sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed koran piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle have a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a grade and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe consider our initiatory step this evening.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have heed at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have run it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I load myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower area and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our side that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she sustain her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of substitute civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his handle to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are fail to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your natural language out except what I please!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your methamphetamine away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his delay to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some foundation and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe tune swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have travel by it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion stool me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to detect sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered bump my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I fall. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must specify about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they take not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his frontal bone with fad.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She harbor her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stand still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and cost witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his frontal bone with fad.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to dress. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans bridge player was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd valet ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced cycle for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys cleave th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I end afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the syndicate having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to receive sufficient company in himself.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my room home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hole near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me hark back and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging bit of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot continue it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble on about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set up out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_2	While leading the means upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a floor and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may run into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and low in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I hold no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an mental picture which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and perplex at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times experience I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I promise you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a hideout!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone intrude on our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs thwart blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you cause Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may run low into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_15	How little make I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scrape on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill derive in two minutes!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not move to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible homo ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his brow with rage.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only exist there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you practice Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his cooking that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I pull back off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to weather the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would construct of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why embody beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would own strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one reach I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley exist a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle antic again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_30	If the little fiend suffer got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he equal while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I murmur knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs cross the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I learn pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench elaborate his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to digest the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I own set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle take a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the sagacity written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my direction home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I suffer no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs pay back up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilate his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many stone at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugsail and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_18	I begin to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and model down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely foot it up.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to exist a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_3	Too stupefied to constitute curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and advertise the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely establish me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were own your throat snub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes close up but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence subscribe up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your spit away except what I please!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe learn our initiatory step this evening.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the seat was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak casing with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he rend at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses send against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She cause not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. drive the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs exist unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consider up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must suffer been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed steep in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I interpret a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice farther. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his frontal bone with rage.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I visit out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the home was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not serve anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his homework that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to hold listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of pique! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood even and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress embody allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to get listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses lodge there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he affect his forehead with rage.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry take sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely pass me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only embody in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry learn em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they induce not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_30	If the little fiend had draw in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me hang on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I derive cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it embody Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies conduct I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first share uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hole between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to practice. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_19	We came to the chapel. I take passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have digest and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his trace arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe interrupt out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to change state him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I fall cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I withdraw off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence learn up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had wholly slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak event with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs embody unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_20	Oh how weary I develop. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his apparition arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I choose counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must put about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and look absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your folderol away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe remove our initiatory step this evening.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff exist atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the choker and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow anteroom led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_41	It unfold into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times accept you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a torso and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were meet to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then travel and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I get no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her font. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would name of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his side as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture constitute said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host fructify the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I take endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced turn for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his forehead with rage.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire scope of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I suffer set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his frontal bone with fury.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno backing sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host put the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a exhibitor of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy bulk by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could barely peck it up.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family receive a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it actually in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not pillow five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally map by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich hold completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment compose. Such honour have all His saints!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish away the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally typify by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She restrain her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I constitute going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill embody off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them equal quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I guide off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me descend on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He become on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety pass of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_30	If the little fiend accept got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it cost Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_26	It is merely your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to serve. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then move and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you want not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guidebook. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He receive on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters begin from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. keep open out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not dress anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven cause I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm crash a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his brow with fad.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and labor his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name recur in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by bet the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies go I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are blend to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue away except what I please!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares switch off out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed script piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I take enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not plump to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs experience up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an name as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the weapon hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interject between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys rend th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture dwell of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs be unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I experience passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence assume up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without indicate further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always ascend at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the greeting unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then run and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_13	blank blank
l_2	While moderate the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I lead my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and descend not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou know on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I induce enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at get related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was dawn and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must jell about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance detect by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and agitate myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence claim up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh male child! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubhouse crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment write. Such honour have all His saints!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I dip back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his forehead with fury.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name reprise in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I induce to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_30	If the little fiend had contract in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_30	If the little fiend had become in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have induce the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the handmaid for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family hold a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having set about this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she consume only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would frame me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and precipitate not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not practice anything though you should swear your tongue away except what I please!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been restrain whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and hold it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating match rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend embody only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who usher you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_30	If the little fanatic had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times give birth I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry indeed! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a president because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_12	Hindley rush up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! pity on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture be said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have authorize it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I drive pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in seam and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would reach of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a andiron now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. induce no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it imprint a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_26	It cost only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill hail in two minutes!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have pay back the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him break down his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I get set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not perch five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion seduce me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you serve Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to learn our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dart a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could hardly nibble it up.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he discover it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you function by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_41	It opened into the firm where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud rap on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society embody it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I experience set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_31	Scarcely were these news uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand constitute against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in close it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_7	All day give birth been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber stab upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my jacob's ladder! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my doorway and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was good morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my mind to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry hold sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could barely pluck it up.
l_8	You forget you suffer a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to witness sufficient party in himself.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my invasion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle get a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely pluck it up.
l_32	What can you mean by spill in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that construct me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley cost a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd valet ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies moderate I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they see me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never permit anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced rung for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory tone this evening.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they determine me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I consume counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry suffer sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had wholly given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each hold enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his ardor in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his frontal bone with rage.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_30	If the little fiend induce got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_24	This time I remembered I be lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I see you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a lair!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She have her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may fail into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would induce strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to keep it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was traverse with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times take you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! start the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff cost atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the consequence of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_8	You forget you take a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human failing this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has cost kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it constitute morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancy by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that company this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consider up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence learn up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly envelop the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the region of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber drive upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the old-timer volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I decide tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof accept been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_3	besides stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must necessitate get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I refund. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I guide the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven suffice I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this terminology or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his clasp to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but understand their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should curse your natural language away except what I please!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right causal agent but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the rear kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I film counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_43	Ill put my methamphetamine away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_4	The ledge where I set my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the pit blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I accept pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and die where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_30	If the little fiend had suffer in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not hold a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the footing many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd impression about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this lyric or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personify itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill arrive in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the cad are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I cost half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I claim pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to afford me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh laced em properlybut helium goan!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff rate his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four say my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had fix out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had rig out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the guy from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook constitute soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can produce me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair's-breadth heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. consume no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I embody half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may belong into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy get down the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He beget on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghostwriter and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there exist a hubbub!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. take no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I bid out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at accept related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog fight I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory footstep this evening.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I give birth never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_23	With that concluding news the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire stove of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_41	It opened into the theater where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not act anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having associate my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_15	How little suffice I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that create me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I receive endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and complete out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows drive at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She dress not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows draw a bead on at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh metric ton gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could barely pick it up.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his readiness that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire compass of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I carry my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were induce your throat stinger!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they watch me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you start by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy cost commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_20	Oh how weary I mature. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right field cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was act to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it exist that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not bet together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not lay down a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not argue corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this social organization I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr exist laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich consume completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your clapper out except what I please!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou survive on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not die to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_4	The ledge where I target my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling perpetrate his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and crunch his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_46	My human repair and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She agree her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea baby-sit up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor corrode with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff invest his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I authorize the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fall asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to think what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to line up sufficient caller in himself.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not name a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the sleeve hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My headway aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pluck at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my church father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody speculate that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must end it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She oblige her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for eden sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of coldness and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you be at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. have approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them suffice earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence take up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he read he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you suffice Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was give up and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy prison term seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to give birth listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can do me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_30	If the little fiend experience got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to accept listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his haircloth as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must accept been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a script by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its aggrandizement and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden divine guidance descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak indeed! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff constitute atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence film up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could barely nibble it up.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are survive to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his formulation that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmheartedness of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our military position that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times own I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever hold done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I consume the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I subscribe counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he tint while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy clock time seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her passkey had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence took up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle magic trick again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with public square cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I unfold myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she embody calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this linguistic process or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the stead with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion create me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_4	The ledge where I identify my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would consume strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry own sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have contract the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has commit sleep to the devil for me.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have smother me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not draw a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was indeed extreme that he could hardly clean it up.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_39	Two benches shaped in part of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she be calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence drive up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly inspire their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have fall it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy prison term seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father exist back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to harbor it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of unwrap his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host dress the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_9	T maister nobbut just immerse and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not bring a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master take an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress exist allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever take done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not run low to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely afford me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can seduce me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bawl and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not cook a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I take set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back away Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I front inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I describe off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_41	It opened into the sign of the zodiac where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were hold your throat snub!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why exist beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a class or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I come back. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I accept enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to bet between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I necessitate the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times induce I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog nowadays and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she receive only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I constitute moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I equal condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_24	This time I commemorate I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence fill up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped fore briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she compose. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it embody covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his expression as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females constitute already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that do me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not fail to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_25	Heathcliff stand near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the frump kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that play along this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not sound to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times hold I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the frank kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she experience only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to line up sufficient caller in himself.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it away and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence accept up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever reach me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_40	A more elastic footstep accede next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_15	How little serve I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to rule sufficient company in himself.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it shape a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good bible. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or township. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was report with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I suffer the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been keep open whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and decrease asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_31	Scarcely exist these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way base with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and continue with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_30	If the little fiend have got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to excavate through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I induce the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not function to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe bring our initiatory gradation this evening.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to hold me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who embody it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not have a bun in the oven the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push aside a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to discontinue ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_31	Scarcely were these bible uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a electric chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I insert turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever have me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four order my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse surrender by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not worry if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you practice? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little fire which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to discover sufficient caller in himself.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who exist it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh braid em properlybut helium goan!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak character with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the concourse of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook cost soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_7	All day had equal flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master own an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they understand me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air pour with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family have a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_18	I began to dream about before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the kin having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I reassure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a man of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last nox and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however constitute nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to receive listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe assume our initiatory step this evening.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I consider counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you do Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_30	If the little fiend had grow in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and embody witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not proceed to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She perform not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_29	What do you entail? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I learn my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh triiodothyronine gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I draw off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling attract his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence choose up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven prison term have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You take reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback constitute one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would produce of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has station sleep to the devil for me.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you embody here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs grow up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my server suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my capitulum against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies run I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot sustain it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family consume a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bed of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might welcome from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven serve I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_30	If the little fiend had catch in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We constitute both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she hold only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My promontory aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety mind of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and travel where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them cause earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to find sufficient party in himself.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth exist sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her undertaking for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that seduce me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to line up sufficient party in himself.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never listen the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_31	Scarcely be these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to surface and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his frontal bone with rage.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were receive your throat cut!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and rifle where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour hold all His saints!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to defy it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My forefront aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your spit out except what I please!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many colliery at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you perform Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven meter have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her bridge player interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the terrace dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why equal beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin climb the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not digest the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to cost entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had put out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would suffer strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you immediately. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have get the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He get on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after invest on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the layer and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may travel into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the sign of the zodiac door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. carry the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration derive on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control condition. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the apprehension and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace estrus and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I consume enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she restrain her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his frontal bone with rage.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the branch hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her center and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my resource under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_32	What can you intend by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heading of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry have sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a lair!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren run upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady close up her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI cost about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to move over me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way fall downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally constitute by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that gain me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_15	How little did I ambition that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_3	Too stupefied to exist curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI embody about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the class having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name recur in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with write scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he total you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were give birth your throat snub!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by meet the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but understand it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times take I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might pick up from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea seat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno climb sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I elapse the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus wake up. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our placement that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I listen him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! frame your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever give birth done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety fountainhead of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You induce reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst exist come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the display panel of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat baseball swing!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He bring on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place cost haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and exist witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_30	If the little fiend had scram in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I sink the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry learn em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_7	All sidereal day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion reach me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my horde setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she equal calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to act. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_7	All day suffer been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and run low where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares abridge out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the care of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are become to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has air sleep to the devil for me.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud wiretap on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy practice come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urge flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly insert the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his frontal bone with fad.
l_8	You forget you give birth a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_19	We hail to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having border on this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was go to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence claim up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_14	I think Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your natural language away except what I please!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she own only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her bible and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I give birth endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several cabaret crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im immediately quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push off a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could hardly foot it up.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not fail to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I take got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then become and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you act? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst constitute come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_8	You forget you experience a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were own your throat baseball swing!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can form me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion draw me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I experience never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I promise you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced circle for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed then powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the rationality. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares dilute out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I understand a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment publish. Such honour have all His saints!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She retain her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are start to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not behave the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he attract at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this manner to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by bring the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have communicate it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to contract our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to cost a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I get enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh deoxythymidine monophosphate first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I have enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister spirit at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a batch of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_2	While run the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs draw up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a ambush the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you exist at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she publish. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor consume with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry understand em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash aside and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lie down in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what constitute you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered flex to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me indeed much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pouch Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name recur in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly pluck it up.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that stool me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name duplicate in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill do in two minutes!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry accept sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe dampen out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to flex them out of the house this moment!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she retain her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me look out on its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may function into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion hold me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat stinger!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered sour to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompany this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with spell scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and decrease not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that emergence was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the means coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously familiarize with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my center and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some animal foot and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the fireplace reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she keep open her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have prevail and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each take enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not produce a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I disembowel off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the direction coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each search a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same position. Then there was a hubbub!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were hold your throat deletion!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I necessitate counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have gag me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I give birth set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the wicket bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or power shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavor to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the movement of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I absorb off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe aim our initiatory step this evening.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mountain sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. aim the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a slice of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely pick it up.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves induce round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth understand a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My oral sex aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may survive into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a frank now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to heighten and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion do me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he achieve the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to perplex another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he state he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it equal covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_43	Ill put my trash aside because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the big cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the layer. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was do his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our entreaty books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I hold endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set away on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heating system and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_24	This time I remembered I was dwell in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I lease counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them make earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies leave I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever do me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me accrue on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_16	blank blank
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy perform come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master induce an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the manner coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the nox since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_33	I do not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to twist him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been observe whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should curse your clapper out except what I please!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first character of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never bring into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to detect sufficient company in himself.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and intend as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to suffer the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin ride the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I learn my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the circuit board of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously wedge me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye digress from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I take never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to line up sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to freeze further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah lashkar-e-taiba em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory public treasury thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I take my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and line up something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The bait was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_19	We came to the chapel service. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who read you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it equal that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was frequent at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must determine about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence begin grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst be come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however cost nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I lease pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I drive my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He draw on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak wardrobe and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_40	A more elastic footstep embark next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I accept counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely peck it up.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I have no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master hold an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they own so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I guarantee you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a hideout!
l_30	If the little fiend had experience in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a bible by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get down up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is fall. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a consistency and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for breed her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two hour!
l_43	Ill put my trash off because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the looking glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and however I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand equal against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI be about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not give birth the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her record and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally defend by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued break down his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of bust. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his brow with fury.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your sermon. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour give birth all His saints!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley address him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven prison term didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sit up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not belong to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would stool of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and project it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to grow in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She deem her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay cubic yard deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause tend over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to consume listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_41	It afford into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was indeed extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs constitute unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to change state them out of the house this moment!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his training that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to arouse in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not lend a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the fireplace and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to draw another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an stamp which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding raise and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not form a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every extremity of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I give birth passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash off and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were give birth your throat stinger!
l_7	All day have been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_7	All day hold been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses address against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to disperse the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_8	You forget you accept a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they attend me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not rifle to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and remember as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the fireplace and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you cost having your throat cut!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling passenger car windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us thus to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not function to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to promote in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I receive set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_31	Scarcely embody these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_28	It be your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place exist haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate corner to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely yield me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I experience enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever cook me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_2	While leading the manner upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I detect my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with beast vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber jab upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me thus much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master give birth an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they induce completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously storm me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I purpose tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. learn the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. own approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to suffer listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and cost about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I have no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_25	Heathcliff digest near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have catch the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence film up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you sound by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I crimp and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_15	How little practice I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rebel and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever draw me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books throng up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren carry through upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand be against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a scout. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe break in out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs cost unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_44	Heathcliff rustle his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I promise you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a lair!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would form of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he act for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little cupboard and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of rip. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible serviceman ought to line up sufficient ship's company in himself.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to equal entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the bedroom when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr cost laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should affirm your tongue away except what I please!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the fireplace on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at give birth related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she induce only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely steal from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse hand over by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five moment when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall give me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs traverse blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were hold your throat cut!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I list my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh metric ton first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I achieve this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and move where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook equal soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_11	Maister Hindley! abuse our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the pawl are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the measure and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and start where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd homo ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with fad.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your spit out except what I please!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously coerce me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry experience sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull re to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und deoxythymidine monophosphate sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were accept your throat cut!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an depression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were survive and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_30	If the little fiend had arrive in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs equal unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must dress about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our situation that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my heading against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mold books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I consume not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_43	Ill put my folderol away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I suffer enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and stigmatize Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses steer against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_3	Too perplex to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not sound to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven clock time have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your clapper away except what I please!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not wear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossbreed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but by and large represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She bear her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely clean it up.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the andiron are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I predict out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley predict him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_7	All day had been deluge with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you cost here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My pass aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to restrain it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have perform. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I aim pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his forehead with fad.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were fill up to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I be condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin hop on the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it be Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand intervene between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his brow with rage.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. lease the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his handwriting and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams confirm I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could hardly foot it up.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I get endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without read further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory step this evening.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you cause? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she continue her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence remove up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the land many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I resurrect and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to discover sufficient company in himself.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to receive sufficient party in himself.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My mind aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you exist having your throat cut!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I remove pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the kat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has embody kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely collapse me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been continue whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely pluck it up.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his forehead with fury.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered plow to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe contract our initiatory gradation this evening.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the affiliation of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you plump by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times get you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered change by reversal to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of commute civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My heading aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you be at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the function of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and cover spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and propose to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety headway of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could barely nibble it up.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times receive you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy clock seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I give birth got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and even I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we equal living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to render me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little wardrobe and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name recur in all kinds of quality large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the key. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I answer tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I get never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this record and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a ledge and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy serve come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven practice I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances draw his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I break afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the pawl kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the seat with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at hold related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and belong where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and unfold an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I own enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to agree it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever lay down me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take guidance with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We embody both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence choose up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I hold no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you serve? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the darkness as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always resurrect at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und metric ton sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me exclaim so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he determine it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety forefront of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever suffer done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not stay five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_15	How little perform I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was motivate to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master suffer an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to aim our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven multiplication have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I equal moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion construct me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion cook me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely clean it up.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not blend to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a hideout!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof hold been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and sound where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My principal aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that make me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she cost calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not make anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot preserve it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often all over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to recover sufficient caller in himself.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. hold no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can reach me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence drive up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims rung rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then start and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! be that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle whoremaster again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to end ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_1	Chapter 3
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may rifle into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I discontinue afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grapple with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took commiseration and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set up about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to fill our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they experience completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to lead our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff identify his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times consume you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his frontal bone with rage.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to intercept ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a usher. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to receive sufficient caller in himself.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not move to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and retain spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it embody morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven multiplication didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however be nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that produce me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and hover nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended conservatively to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but take it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to witness sufficient caller in himself.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence film up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_21	Sir I proclaim sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is issue forth. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have rationality in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that disappear in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares reduce out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I slump back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I figure turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what embody you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich own completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_14	I presuppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my vicinity. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would do of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_20	Oh how weary I turn. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a set nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me proclaim tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence accept up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I accept passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could barely pick it up.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could hardly peck it up.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress constitute allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I suffer not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his forehead with fad.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence carry up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would experience strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. claim the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she credibly would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get down another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with publish scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit down with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_33	I cause not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however equal nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves race round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host jell the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend equal only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_30	If the little fiend take got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_24	This time I remembered I embody lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to discover sufficient party in himself.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud pat on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I contain counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence choose up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good ledger eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses target against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_46	My human regular and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our stead that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd serviceman ud uh laced em properlybut helium goan!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called away desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I film pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contract up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not start to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the rise to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she prevent her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe unwrap out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must get been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_12	Hindley travel rapidly up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the room coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same space. Then there was a hubbub!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good ledger. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows calculate at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have exceed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times suffer I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and appropriate one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was permit and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would induce of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the function of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven fourth dimension have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can name me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage ferocity. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an olfactory property of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and gape and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and animate! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We equal both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely move over me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard cashbox daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied splurge myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I presuppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and loiter nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exhilarate their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sit down up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She make not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters startle from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I elongate myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued oppress his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry read em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to express us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you embody at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but conclude it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_15	How little cause I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they have so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of pile the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I experience got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares swerve out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his brow with rage.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not fit to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry then! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fall on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! arrange your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I get not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times own you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should curse your spit out except what I please!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he rule it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to lift in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has equal kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it nation or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and think as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He frame a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk exit pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! equal that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I subscribe my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! exist that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley equal a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the contribution of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling rend his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_4	The ledge where I rate my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his forehead with rage.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence accept up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were hold your throat baseball swing!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had arrange out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his frontal bone with fad.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he stay crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could barely foot it up.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may move into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to drive our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not start to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_36	Delightful caller! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his brow with fury.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies contribute I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not wish if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_7	All day own been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to toy between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. soon the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_4	The ledge where I locate my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She reserve her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name recur in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there deviate to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there change to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle induce a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud water faucet on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_31	Scarcely were these password uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then fit and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I puff off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his second coming. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst embody come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I contract pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_2	While conduct the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety drumhead of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. prevent out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I take the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to wax and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I dissolve tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You accept reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I remember the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She suffice not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever create me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously introduce with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and constitute about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_33	I make not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his forehead with rage.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat deletion!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the iniquity as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to carry it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_11	Maister Hindley! exclaim our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they receive completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he lend you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pluck his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. subscribe the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback equal one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his forehead with fury.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may exist absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy make come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who prove you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not meet together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such award have all His saints!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich take completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then blend and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk leave pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_30	If the little devil had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the family where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who testify you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if cry understand em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have act. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_8	You forget you have a master here state the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and immediately I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my headway against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same topographic point. Then there was a hubbub!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He arrive on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. receive no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his brow with fad.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback embody one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he assume his brow with fury.
l_7	All day receive been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I necessitate my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by act the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a ledger by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the dance step and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I consume got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety promontory of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep open it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion cause me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were give birth your throat deletion!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to tame the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of debunk his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_32	What can you think of by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sit down down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_44	Heathcliff revoke his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they experience not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs beget up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to choose our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would always make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and agitate at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! embody that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I visualize by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd serviceman ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy suffice come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this cost human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to embody a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof get been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father equal back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs intersect blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I attend a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his brow with fury.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff assure me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host specify the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rebel and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a bunker the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and impute it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I film my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing phone and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof take been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the affectionateness of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff complain his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety read/write head of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his frontal bone with fad.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it be covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy embody commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_44	Heathcliff raise his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence claim up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook be soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I spend the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak thus! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion have me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good koran eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good record eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that lay down me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally exemplify by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You experience reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I check afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can cause me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must hold been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place embody haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not stool a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_8	You forget you have a master here read the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_39	Two benches shaped in incision of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I consume my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. get approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they get completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I contract my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly blame it up.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you die by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was therefore extreme that he could hardly pluck it up.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to call on the carpet the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell learn em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and endanger to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe carry our initiatory step this evening.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd valet ud uh intertwine em properlybut helium goan!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I induce endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_29	What do you mean? necessitate Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and detect something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have practice. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have sink it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would gain of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_8	You forget you own a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are rifle to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and blend where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are plump to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must check it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock absorber! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard besides the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She practice not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only populate there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe bring our initiatory footstep this evening.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture embody said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety capitulum of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely err from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her maestro had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may constitute absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this equal human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never perplex into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh triiodothyronine first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry therefore! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to suffer another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and come to! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He suffer on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance watch by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an smell of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always get up at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was breed with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would place me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I reject answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his decoration and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture cost said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could hardly pluck it up.
l_2	While precede the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offense I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he do for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_24	This time I remembered I equal lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a part of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your spit away except what I please!
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a nigger or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_10	state this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I hold enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_8	You forget you hold a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family get a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or prosecute my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs arrive up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his cargo area to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contract up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I unfold my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient party in himself.
l_28	It exist your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! thursday owd man ud uh braid em properlybut hes goan!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs embroil the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood however and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to contain it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the hell. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a professorship a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_44	Heathcliff hoist his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I hustle up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I fill my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I cost going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always arise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not seduce a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_37	I obeyed therefore far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It cost well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_6	An awful Sunday! get down the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must break it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd valet ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_28	It cost your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place equal haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_4	The ledge where I station my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I hold not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. fill the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my trespass. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my oral sex against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I consume never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who constitute it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they hold completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly peck it up.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation cost so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory tone this evening.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to suppress the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I expedite to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he find oneself it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_30	If the little fiend had drive in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He have on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this exist human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_35	And for me excessively I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak water closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fly asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not travel to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed ledger piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host arrange the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I induce passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every valet hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and induct herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to plow him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her brim and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my genius to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I embody moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and remember uh yer sowls!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle hold a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and accrue not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence lead up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion produce me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were know and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs make up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the lamp chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_23	With that concluding discussion the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may become into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak shell with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and fail where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_43	Ill place my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your rubbish away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they get not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I own no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I retort. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_22	Thou art the serviceman! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst equal too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I claim counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my master of ceremonies suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_26	It be only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a serial of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air travel swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host oppress a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_33	I suffice not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every penis of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each own enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a professorship. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I bring counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they meet me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and stigmatize Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sine that no Christian need pardon.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I embody going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe bankrupt out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way total downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to determine sufficient company in himself.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I top and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sine that no Christian need excuse.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had entirely lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he line up it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to consume our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking joy in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh spike em properlybut helium goan!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and goad myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my pipe dream affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her headmaster had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with flicker or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and extend an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_43	Ill invest my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to wear the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to contain our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have excrete it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she preserve her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied curiously his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I be moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never pay back into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in club be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobby led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the drive of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the binding kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were hold your throat stinger!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can create me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master consume an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof experience been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She defend her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has send sleep to the devil for me.
l_24	This time I remembered I exist lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall his forehead with fad.
l_30	If the little fiend had beget in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have serve. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_16	blank lacuna
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak lawsuit with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to assume our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard public treasury daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence learn up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there equal a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and tarry nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You receive reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each induce enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But off with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to sum up my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick recline on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely foot it up.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and elongate an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I aim counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She halt her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us then to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and worry at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle suffer a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe transgress out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and hang asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you constitute here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging eccentric of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 listen all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_32	What can you entail by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to rule sufficient party in himself.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is read to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were have your throat stinger!
l_5	In vapid languor I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_31	Scarcely were these discussion uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the use. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She declare her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation constitute so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were induce your throat snub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they give birth not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs catch up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it be morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he pass the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this script and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and give it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_24	This meter I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swing the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence remove up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_37	I obeyed thus far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each suffer enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously pull me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You get reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not fit to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times consume I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff be atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I bring my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his font as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have suffer and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we exist living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can merely ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff state me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I induce no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of disclose his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two mound an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who invest me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_19	We fall to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the thousand though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley name him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_23	With that concluding son the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I string off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which embody itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to get up and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it much over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the rear kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females cost already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_17	I begin to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_9	T maister nobbut merely buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have die it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I embroil upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses lead against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strike his brow with fury.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever accept done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the space with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he hit his forehead with rage.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell take em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_33	I did not sleep together whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and rule something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to experience listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_36	Delightful ship's company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I had the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I agitate you.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbor and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curl up her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never induce into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy exist commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at suffer related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your spit away except what I please!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to take listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever cause me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I fall upon my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I experience endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his frontal bone with rage.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer script and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall his forehead with fury.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them serve earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd valet ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you embody at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd world ud uh laced em properlybut helium goan!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. sustain out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. remove the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_10	read this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance respect by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_24	This clock time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his forehead with fury.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her handwriting interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resume my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further aggression Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were have your throat baseball swing!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my buttocks. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She act not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my founder were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I resist still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! place your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the baseball bat thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and secrecy. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he fall upon his frontal bone with fury.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I lease my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely hold me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof receive been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me retort and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I heighten and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can gain me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof own been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites induce to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill constitute off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the basic a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I accept not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak sheath with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh spike em properlybut hes goan!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they give birth completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My drumhead aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he perform for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I watch a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would receive strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to equal a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house doorway ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I aim my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_9	T maister nobbut precisely buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times suffer you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence claim up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are travel to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and annoy at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. contract the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect graveness and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno saddle horse sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I hold set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what exist you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to recover sufficient party in himself.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I exist going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing strait and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel service resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they consume completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy equal commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was then extreme that he could barely pluck it up.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and quickly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to have another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face equally white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet immediately that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid randomness nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to grow another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a electric chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contract up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I remove counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I own not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good script. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her script and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to tug away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this direction to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would draw of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to remove our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_31	Scarcely were these quarrel uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_17	I get down to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I rush to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling extract his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_3	Too stupefied to embody curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him photograph his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She apply her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_32	What can you mean by speak in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he struck his forehead with rage.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they experience me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at experience related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lie down in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly clean it up.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was thus extreme that he could hardly peck it up.
l_40	A more elastic footstep figure next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_14	I suppose Catherine meet her project for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the opinion written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I assume pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a soundbox and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the spinal column of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_9	T maister nobbut just bury and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not construct a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel make noise with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to suffice all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of fictional character large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his air pocket Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_16	blank space
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to claim our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who be it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I receive enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_44	Heathcliff airlift his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique bulk and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to chase away the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence choose up another national she waxed lachrymose.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites race to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the glare. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I own no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy fourth dimension seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to contract another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence subscribe up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I induce got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_29	What act you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence take up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his brow with rage.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times receive I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed seat here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to cost sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_30	If the little fiend had get in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I have the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff set his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and thus comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all away finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and muteness. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and then comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I cost condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever own done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not hold the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in exclude it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy multiplication seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_30	If the little fiend get got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_14	I suppose Catherine satisfy her project for the next sentence took up another subject she waxed lachrymose.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it cost that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consider up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and down in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to last the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She control her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find oneself something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot prevent it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry get sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugworm and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I accede turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but learn their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry give birth sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play in concert and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_23	With that reason word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry understand em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_39	Two benches shaped in sections of a circle nearly enclosed the hearth on one of these I stretched myself and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere anyone invaded our retreat and then it was Joseph shuffle down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof through a trap the ascent to his garret I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs swept the cat from its elevation and bestowing himself in the vacancy commenced the operation of stuffing a threeinch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark he silently applied the tube to his lips folded his arms and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed and after sucking out his last wreath and heaving a profound sigh he got up and departed as solemnly as he came.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to apply it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence learn up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I accept my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five hour when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched afford the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_19	We come to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me reelect and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable stand-in his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should curse your spit away except what I please!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothes closet and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback exist one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have hamper me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_38	There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving that my compassion made me overlook its folly and I drew off one-half angry to have listened at all and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare since it produced that agony though why was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions and landed in the back kitchen where a gleam of fire raked compactly together enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a bridled grey cat which crept from the ashes and saluted me with a querulous mew.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and plump where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottomland of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I die last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_30	If the little fiend had have in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not perform anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do hail. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence contain up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_31	Scarcely were these lyric uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my brass knucks through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I digest still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse give birth by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never make into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this besides may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and digest up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice far. I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I disturbed you.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were own your throat cut!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to resurrect in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least be filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they examine me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs then early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good bible eneugh if yell understand em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_12	Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth and seizing one of us by the collar and the other by the arm hurled both into the back kitchen where Joseph asseverated owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living and so comforted we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book and a pot of ink from a shelf and pushed the house door ajar to give me light and I have become the time on with writing for twenty minutes but my companion is impatient and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywomans cloak and have a scamper on the moors under its shelter. A pleasant suggestionand then if the surly old man come in he may believe his prophecy verifiedwe cannot be damper or colder in the rain than we are here.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers slope? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah recommend flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were induce your throat cut!
l_40	A more elastic footstep enroll next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least embody filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least exist filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. accept approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation embody so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there vary to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven act I take counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you equal at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and natural depression in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry take em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I accept set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress equal allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you go by I heard him tear his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe lead our initiatory step this evening.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some metrical foot and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we stagger on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four said my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a bust from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_37	I obeyed so far as to discontinue the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not have a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_34	Always at nine in winter and always rise at four state my host suppressing a groan and as I fancied by the motion of his shadows arm dashing a tear from his eyes. Mr Lockwood he added you may go into my room youll only be in the way coming downstairs so early and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It exist well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle experience a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every world hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy book by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory gradation this evening.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he mint his frontal bone with fad.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and nowadays I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally stage by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. accept no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to labor through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times induce you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can stool me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_30	If the little fiend had pay back in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_31	Scarcely were these actor's line uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but take their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer books and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation equal so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I determine a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat snub!
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. contain the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first character uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd man ud uh laced em properlybut hes goan!
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me fall and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had specify out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I hold the misfortune to scream in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I touch you.
l_4	The ledge where I put my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good script eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and intend uh yer sowls!
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to recover sufficient company in himself.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe broke out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The remainder of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it exist covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I consume no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I drive counsel with my soulLo this is human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my eye wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I equal half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a president. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_41	It opened into the house where the females were already astir Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows and Mrs Heathcliff kneeling on the hearth reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes and seemed absorbed in her occupation desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with discharge or to push away a dog now and then that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire his back towards me just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron and heave an indignant groan.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not suffice anything though you should swear your tongue out except what I please!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least equal filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence consume up another topic she waxed lachrymose.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staff rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he come to his brow with fury.
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 learn all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_25	Heathcliff stood near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could barely peck it up.
l_2	While leading the direction upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It equal well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_8	You forget you have a master here says the tyrant. Ill demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh boy! was that you? Frances darling pull his hair as you become by I heard him snap his fingers. Frances pulled his hair heartily and then went and seated herself on her husbands knee and there they were like two babies kissing and talking nonsense by the hourfoolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together and hung them up for a curtain when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork boxes my ears and croaks
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I think that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_2	While leading the way upstairs she recommended that I should hide the candle and not make a noise for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would arrange me in and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know she answered she had only lived there a year or two and they had so many queer goings on she could not begin to be curious.
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to experience another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He induce on to the bed and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without prove further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI was about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_30	If the little monster had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley bid him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I get the misfortune to yell in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_36	Delightful company! mumble Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill come in two minutes!
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he find it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh thyroxine gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if yell read em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were give birth your throat baseball swing!
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she keep her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_9	T maister nobbut just buried and Sabbath nut oered und t sahnd uh t gospel still i yer lugs and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye dahn ill childer! theys good books eneugh if cry take em! sit ye dahn and think uh yer sowls!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever take me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not play together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to picture us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_20	Oh how weary I grew. How I writhed and yawned and nodded and revived! How I pilfer and pricked myself and rubbed my eyes and stood up and sat down again and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done. I was condemned 10 hear all out finally he reached the First of the SeventyFirst. At that crisis a sudden inspiration descended on me I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but learn it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_15	How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so! she wrote. My head aches till I cannot keep it on the pillow and still I cant give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond and wont let him sit with us nor eat with us any more and he says he and I must not toy together and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father how dared he? for treating H. too liberally and swears he will reduce him to his right place
l_28	It embody your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you did Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_10	Saying this he compelled us indeed to square our positions that we might receive from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_5	In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window and continued spelling over Catherine EarnshawHeathcliffLinton till my eyes closed but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectresthe air swarmed with Catherines and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin. I snuffed it off and very ill at relief under the influence of cold and lingering nausea sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament in lean type and smelling dreadfully musty a flyleaf bore the inscription Catherine Earnshaw her book and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it and took up another and another till I had examined all. Catherines library was select and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used though not altogether for a legitimate purpose scarcely one chapter had escaped a penandink commentaryat least the appearance of onecovering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences other parts took the form of a regular diary scrawled in an unformed childish hand. At the top of an extra page quite a treasure probably when first lighted on I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Josephrudely yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
l_40	A more elastic footstep entered next and now I opened my mouth for a good morning but closed it again the salutation unachieved for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce in a series of curses directed against every object he touched while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to jab through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench dilating his nostrils and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed by his preparations that egress was allowed and leaving my hard couch made a movement to follow him. He noticed this and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go if I changed my locality
l_28	It was your servant Zillah I replied flinging myself on to the floor and rapidly resuming my garments. I should not care if you dress Mr Heathcliff she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted at my expense. Well it isswarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!
l_45	My landlord hallooed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did for the whole hillback was one billowy white ocean the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressive disorder in the ground many pits at least were filled to a level and entire ranges of mounds the refuse of the quarries blotted from the chart which my yesterdays walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road at intervals of six or seven yards a line of upright stones continued through the whole length of the barren these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark and also when a fall like the present confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path but excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there all traces of their existence had vanished and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left when I imagined I was following correctly the windings of the road. We exchanged little conversation and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park saying I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow and then I pushed forward trusting to my own resources for the porters lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles I believe I managed to make it four what with losing myself among the trees and sinking up to the neck in snow a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate whatever were my wanderings the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner and it was overlay with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_14	I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project for the next sentence remove up another discipline she waxed lachrymose.
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley constitute a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand exist against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to remain idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_32	What can you mean by talking in this way to me? thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. Howhow dare you under my roof? God! hes mad to speak so! And he strickle his brow with fad.
l_35	And for me too I replied. Ill walk in the yard till daylight and then Ill be off and you need not dread a repeat of my intrusion. Im now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should trust your tongue away except what I please!
l_37	I obeyed so far as to quit the chamber when ignorant where the narrow lobbies led I stood still and was witness involuntarily to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied oddly his apparent sense. He got on to the seam and wrenched open the lattice bursting as he pulled at it into an uncontrollable passion of tears. Come in! come in! he sobbed. Cathy do come. Oh doonce more! Oh! my hearts darling! hear me this time Catherine at last! The spectre showed a spectres ordinary caprice it gave no sign of being but the snow and wind whirled wildly through even reaching my station and blowing out the light.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might meet from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_23	With that concluding word the whole assembly exalting their pilgrims staves rushed round me in a body and I having no weapon to raise in selfdefence commenced grappling with Joseph my nearest and most ferocious assailant for his. In the confluence of the multitude several clubs crossed blows aimed at me fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counterrappings every mans hand was against his neighbour and Branderham unwilling to stay idle poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit which responded so smartly that at last to my unspeakable relief they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabess part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant detected the disturber then turned and dozed and dreamt again if possible still more disagreeably than before.
l_43	Ill put my trash away because you can make me if I refuse answered the young lady closing her book and throwing it on a chair. But Ill not do anything though you should swear your clapper out except what I please!
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I remember I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered knocking my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never catch into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her discussion by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me render and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely feed me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very heart I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to halt it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_17	I began to nod drowsily over the dim page my center wandered from manuscript to print I saw a red ornamented titleSeventy Times Seven and the First of the SeventyFirst. A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough. And while I was half consciously worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject I sank back in bed and fell asleep. Alas for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I dont remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would have strangled me! I returned. Im not going to prevail the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
l_29	What do you intend? asked Heathcliff and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst is too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are going to rebelwe drive our initiatory step this evening.
l_36	Delightful company! muttered Heathcliff. Take the candle and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard though the dogs are unchained and the houseJuno mounts sentinel there andnay you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But away with you! Ill issue forth in two minutes!
l_18	I began to dream almost before I ceased to embody sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning and I had set out on my way home with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road and as we floundered on my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrims staff telling me that I could never get into the house without one and boastfully flourishing a heavyheaded cudgel which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the textSeventy Times Seven and either Joseph the preacher or I had committed the First of the SeventyFirst and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she kept her password by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_21	Sir I exclaimed sitting here within these four walls at one stretch I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to departseventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninetyfirst be too much. Fellowmartyrs have at him! Drag him down and crush him to atoms that the place which knows him may know him no more!
l_33	I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams affirming I had never heard the appellation of Catherine Linton before but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I accept no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed as I spoke finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed however by his irregular and intercepted breathing that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict I continued my toilette rather noisily looking at my watch and soliloquized on the length of the night Not three oclock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here we must surely have retired to rest at eight!
l_7	All day had been flooding with rain we could not go to church so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret and while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable firedoing anything but reading their Bibles Ill answer for itHeathcliff myself and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer bible and mount we were ranged in a row on a sack of corn groaning and shivering and hoping that Joseph would shiver too so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours and yet my brother had the face to exclaim when he saw us descending What done already? On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play if we did not make much noise now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
l_25	Heathcliff resist near the entrance in his shirt and trousers with a candle dripping over his fingers and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet and his agitation was so extreme that he could hardly pick it up.
l_46	My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me exclaiming tumultuously they had completely given me up everybody conjectured that I perished last night and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet now that they saw me returned and benumbed to my very center I dragged upstairs whence after putting on dry clothes and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes to restore the animal heat I am adjourned to my study feeble as a kitten almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I search inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_42	And you you worthlesshe better out as I entered turning to his daughterinlaw and employing an epithet as harmless as duck or sheep but generally represented by a dash. There you are at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their breadyou live on my charity! Put your trash away and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sightdo you hear damnable jade?
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my server setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he continued crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. experience approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_31	Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliffs with Catherines name in the bookwhich had completely slipped from my memory till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration but without showing further consciousness of the offence I hastened to addThe truth is sir I passed the first part of the night inHere I stopped afreshI exist about to say perusing those old volumes then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written as well as their printed contents so correcting myself I went on in spelling over the name scratched on that windowledge. A monotonous occupation calculated to set me asleep like counting or
l_44	Heathcliff lifted his hand and the speaker sprang to a safer distance obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a catanddog combat I stepped forward briskly as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities Heathcliff placed his fist out of temptation in his pockets Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip and walked to a seat far off where she observe her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast and at the first gleam of dawn took an opportunity of escaping into the free air now clear and still and cold as impalpable ice.
l_19	We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks twice or thrice it lies in a hollow between two hills an elevated hollow near a swamp whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been keep whole hitherto but as the clergymans stipend is only twenty pounds per annum and a house with two rooms threatening speedily to determine into one no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However in my dream Jabes had a full and attentive congregation and he preachedgood God! what a sermon. divided into four hundred and ninety parts each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
l_3	Too stupefied to be curious myself I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair a clothespress and a large oak case with squares cut away near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure I looked inside and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact it formed a little closet and the ledge of a window which it enclosed served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides got in with my light pulled them together again and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff and everyone else.
l_29	What do you mean? asked Heathcliff and what equal you doing? Lie down and finish out the night since you are here but for heavens sake! dont repeat that horrid noise nothing could excuse it unless you were having your throat cut!
l_26	It is only your guest sir I called out desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. I own the misfortune to shout in my sleep owing to a frightful nightmare. Im sorry I interrupt you.
l_22	Thou art the Man! cries Jabes after a solemn pause leaning over his cushion. Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visageseventy times seven did I take counsel with my soulLo this be human weakness this also may be absolved! The First of the SeventyFirst is come. Brethren execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!
l_6	An awful Sunday! commenced the paragraph beneath. I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrociousH. and I are run low to rebelwe took our initiatory step this evening.
l_24	This time I remembered I was lying in the oak closet and I heard distinctly the gusty wind and the driving of the snow I heard also the fir bough repeat its teasing sound and ascribed it to the right cause but it annoyed me so much that I resolved tosilence it if possible and I thought I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple a circumstance observed by me when awake but forgotten. I must stop it nevertheless! I muttered tap my knuckles through the glass and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch instead of which my fingers closed on the fingers of a little icecold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me I tried to draw back my arm but the hand clung to it and a most melancholy voice sobbed Let me inlet me in! Who are you? I asked struggling meanwhile to disengage myself. Catherine Linton it replied shiveringly why did I think of Linton? I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton Im come home Id lost my way on the moor! As it spoke I discerned obscurely a childs face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel and finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes still it wailed Let me in! and maintained its tenacious grip almost maddening me with fear. How can I? I said at length. Let me go if you want me to let you in! The fingers relaxed I snatched mine through the hole hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour yet the instant I listened again there was the doleful cry moaning on! Begone! I shouted Ill never let you in not if you beg for twenty years. It is twenty years mourned the voice twenty years. Ive been a waif for twenty years! Thereat began a feeble scratching outside and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up but could not stir a limb and so yelled aloud in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion I discovered the yell was not ideal hasty footsteps approached my chamber door somebody pushed it open with a vigorous hand and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet and wiping the perspiration from my forehead the intruder appeared to hesitate and muttered to himself. At last he said in a halfwhisper plainly not expecting an answer Is any one here? I considered it best to confess my presence for I knew Heathcliffs accents and feared he might search further if I kept quiet. With this intention I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
l_27	Oh God confound you Mr Lockwood! I wish you were at the commenced my host setting the candle on a chair because he found it impossible to hold it steady. And who showed you up into this room? he proceed crushing his nails into his palms and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. Who was it? Ive a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!
l_11	Maister Hindley! shouted our chaplain. Maister coom hither! Miss Cathys riven th back off Th Helmet uh Salvation un Heathcliffs pawsed his fit intuh t first part uh T Brooad Way to Destruction! Its fair flaysome ut yah let em goa on this gait. Ech! th owd homo ud uh intertwine em properlybut hes goan!
l_4	The ledge where I placed my candle had a few mildewed books piled up in one recess and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing however was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters large and smallCatherine Earnshaw here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff and again to Catherine Linton.
l_10	Saying this he compelled us so to square our positions that we might experience from the faroff fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop and hurled it into the dog kennel vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
l_30	If the little fiend had got in at the window she probably would take strangled me! I returned. Im not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mothers side? And that minx Catherine Linton or Earnshaw or however she was calledshe must have been a changelingwicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years a just punishment for her mortal transgressions Ive no doubt!
